Basic Linux Topics

Q.  What & why is Linux
     - Linux is open sources operating system based on Unix. 
       it was introduced by Linus torwords to provide free and low-cost operating system 
       to the peoples who can not afford operating system like windows, macs etc. 

    Why we use Linux
    - linux makes very efficiant use of the system's resources..
      linux can runs on a range of hardware, right from supercomputers to watches
      it is highly secure 
            highly scalable
            ease of use 
            ease of maintainence
            runs on any hardware
            free
            opensource
            customisation
      it has strong community

Q.  Linux Installation steps
    
     -  Download the distribution of your choice
        Create a live CD or live USB drive
        Boot from the installation media
        follow the on-screen instructions
        create an account
        create partition 
        finish the installation and reboot

Q.  Basic Linux command for day to day use

    -   

Q.  Files and Directory permission & How it works

    -  When we create any file or directory that time system/kernel assignes same permissions 
       which is defined using umask value
       umask will deside what should be the default permission of the file or directory
       there are three kind of permissions to access any file or directory 
       read, write and execute that is assign on three catagory of users 
       owner, group  and others we can change permission using chmod commnd 

       [
           there are two kind of owners of file/directory
           user and group
           we can change owners by chown and chgroup command
       ]

Q.  Package concepts

    - what is rpm

Q.  Storage concepts
Q.  Disk Management


Q.  concept of VLAN

    - VLAN stands for virtual local area network 
      a VLAN is a local area network where the computers, servers and others network devices
      can logically connected reguardless of their physical location 


